training: big data with skypilot (#131)
tigrisdata/tigris-os-docs: docs/training/big-data-skypilot.mdx

# Training with Big Data on SkyPilot

> SkyPilot simplifies multi-cloud deployments, offering unmatched flexibility for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SkyPilot simplifies multi-cloud deployments, offering flexibility for
```

training large-scale data models across different cloud providers. Unlike custom

> solutions or complex tools like Terraform, SkyPilot provides an effortless way

Reviewer: ```suggestion
solutions or higher investment tools like Terraform, SkyPilot provides an effortless way
```

to deploy workloads seamlessly across clouds, eliminating the need for manual
intervention.

> With SkyPilot, switching between cloud environments is as easy as updating your

Reviewer: > With SkyPilot, switching between cloud environments is as easy as updating your
> credentials. It abstracts away complexities like egress costs, performance
> tuning, and cloud-specific quirks, ensuring a consistent user experience no
> matter the provider. By focusing on ergonomic multi-cloud operations, SkyPilot
> empowers teams to concentrate on their data workloads instead of the
> infrastructure.
> 
> In synergy with SkyPilot, Tigris enhances this experience by providing global
> object storage that performs consistently across any cloud. Whether handling
> large datasets or ensuring low-latency access, Tigris ensures uniform
> performance and reliability. Together, SkyPilot and Tigris create a seamless
> ecosystem for multi-cloud data operations, enabling fast, reliable storage and
> deployment for big data training.

-->

While multi-cloud tools like SkyPilot abstract away cloud provider specific quirks, underlying egress costs and bottlenecks in the storage layer can be roadblocks. Combining Tigris with SkyPilot ensures there are no cross-cloud egress costs, all while ensuring consistent performance and reliability in any region. 

In this guide, you'll build a multi-cloud compatible model training job that leverages Tigris to store training data and SkyPilot to manage compute.

credentials. It abstracts away complexities like egress costs, performance
tuning, and cloud-specific quirks, ensuring a consistent user experience no
matter the provider. By focusing on ergonomic multi-cloud operations, SkyPilot
empowers teams to concentrate on their data workloads instead of the
infrastructure.

In synergy with SkyPilot, Tigris enhances this experience by providing global
object storage that performs consistently across any cloud. Whether handling
large datasets or ensuring low-latency access, Tigris ensures uniform
performance and reliability. Together, SkyPilot and Tigris create a seamless
ecosystem for multi-cloud data operations, enabling fast, reliable storage and
deployment for big data training.

> (Link back to blogpost?)

Reviewer: the guide should be independent
